RTCTransportStats - create docs (#30231)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/rtctransportstats/index.md

  - : A string indicating the [ICE `role`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceTransport/role) of the underlying {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport.iceTransport")}}.
- `iceLocalUsernameFragment` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string indicating the local username fragment used in message validation procedures for this transport, as sent in the `ice-ufrag` attribute of the {{glossary("SDP")}} offer when negotiating the ICE connection.
    The value will change if the connection is renegotiated: on ICE restart or following {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.setLocalDescription()")}}.
- `dtlsState`
  - : A string indicating the current {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport.state","state")}} of the underlying {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}}: `new`, `connecting`, `connected`, `closed`, and `failed`.
- `iceState` {{optional_inline}}
  - : {{domxref("RTCIceTransportState")}}
    Xxx Set to the current value of the state attribute of the underlying RTCIceTransport.
- `selectedCandidatePairId` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string containing the unique identifier for the object that was inspected to produce the {{domxref("RTCIceCandidatePairStats")}} associated with this transport.
- `localCertificateId` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string containing the local certification <!-- For components where DTLS is negotiated -->

Author: I'm trying to work out what this comment " For components where DTLS is negotiated " means. It likely means "only if the transport is DTLS, but it could mean "after the connection is negotiated".

- `remoteCertificateId` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string containing the remote certification. <!-- For components where DTLS is negotiated -->
- `tlsVersion` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string containing the negotiated TLS versions.
    Only exists after DTLS negotiation is complete.
    <!-- For components where DTLS is negotiated, the TLS version agreed -->
- `dtlsCipher` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string Xxxx

Author: FYI Xxxx in this means still thinking about it. In this case the text is often spec text.

- `selectedCandidatePairChanges` {{optional_inline}}
  - : Xxxx The number of times that the selected candidate pair of this transport has changed.
    Going from not having a selected candidate pair to having a selected candidate pair, or the other way around, also increases this counter. It is initially zero and becomes one when an initial candidate pair is selected.

### Common instance properties

The following properties are common to all WebRTC statistics objects.

<!-- RTCStats -->

- {{domxref("RTCTransportStats.id", "id")}}
  - : A string that uniquely identifies the object that is being monitored to produce this set of statistics.
- {{domxref("RTCTransportStats.timestamp", "timestamp")}}
  - : A {{domxref("DOMHighResTimeStamp")}} object indicating the time at which the sample was taken for this statistics object.
- {{domxref("RTCTransportStats.type", "type")}}
  - : A string with the value `"transport"`, indicating the type of statistics that the object contains.

## Examples

> This example shows a function to return the transport statistics, or `null` if no statistics are provided.

Author: Basic example. Not sure how realistic it is.

---
title: RTCTransportStats
slug: Web/API/RTCTransportStats
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.RTCStatsReport.type_transport
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

The **`RTCTransportStats`** dictionary of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) provides information about the transport ({{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}} and its underlying {{domxref("RTCIceTransport")}}) used by a particular candidate pair.

> Note that if remote endpoint is aware of the BUNDLE SDP feature, all {{domxref("MediaStreamTrack")}} and data channels are bundled onto a single transport at the completion of negotiation.

Author: I've spelled it out.

This is true for current browsers, but if connecting to an older endpoint that is not BUNDLE-aware, then separate transports might be used for different media.
The policy to use in the negotiation is configured in the [`RTCPeerConnection` constructor](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCPeerConnection/RTCPeerConnection).

These statistics can be obtained by iterating the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport")}} returned by {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}} until you find a report with the [`type`](#type) of `transport`.

## Instance properties

> - `packetsSent` {{optional_inline}}

Author: Done

  - : The total number of packets sent over this transport.
- `packetsReceived` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The total number of packets received on this transport.
- `bytesSent` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The total number of payload bytes sent on this transport (bytes sent, not including headers, padding or ICE connectivity checks).
- `bytesReceived` {{optional_inline}}
  - : The total number of payload bytes received on this transport (bytes received, not including headers, padding or ICE connectivity checks).
- `iceRole` {{optional_inline}}

>   - : A string indicating the [ICE `role`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceTransport/role) of the underlying {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport.iceTransport")}}: `controlling` or `controlled`.

Reviewer: "unknown" also seems to be a value? https://www.w3.org/TR/webrtc/#dom-rtcicerole

I would spell this out a bit more, like:

```suggestion
  - : A string indicating the [ICE `role`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCIceTransport/role) of the underlying {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport.iceTransport")}}. This can be any of the following:
      - `controlling`
      - `controlled`
      - `unknown`
```

Author: Yes, thanks. I took that from the ICE role, which will also need to be updated.

  - : The total number of payload bytes sent on this transport (bytes sent, not including headers, padding or ICE connectivity checks).
- `dtlsCipher` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A string indicating the name of the cipher suite used for the DTLS transport, as defined in the "Description" column of the [TLS Cipher Suites](https://www.iana.org/assignments/tls-parameters/tls-parameters.xhtml#tls-parameters-4) section in the _IANA cipher suite registry_.
    For example `"TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_GCM_SHA256"`.
- `dtlsRole` {{optional_inline}}

  - : The DTLS role of the associated {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}.
    This is one of:

    - `client`
    - `server`
    - `unknown` (before the DTLS negotiation starts).

- `dtlsState`

  - : A string indicating the current {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport.state","state")}} of the underlying {{domxref("RTCDtlsTransport")}}.
    This is one of:

    - [`new`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#new)
    - [`connecting`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#connecting)
    - [`connected`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#connected)
    - [`closed`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#closed)

>     - [`failed`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCDtlsTransport/state#failed)

Author: FYI, I've split these all out into their own bullets for consistency with your other comment. Note that I had previously chosen not to do so because I thought people would go to the linked `RTCDtlsTransport.state` for the definition. Just to make it very clear, I have now linked the definitions where they exist.
